in southern Thailand long-tailed
macaques are sometimes known as Ling
tarle sea monkeys
and it's not hard to see why
[Music]
[Applause]
but this isn't just about having a good
time
[Music]
like their temple visiting cousins
they've got a clever plan they've
adapted their lives to the rhythm of the
sea and twice a day
low tide reveals a feast nutritious
shellfish trouble is shells are tough to
crack but ever resourceful these
macaques have found a smart solution
[Applause]
they've worked out that rocks make
perfect shellfish hammers
[Music]
although clearly some macaques are
little smarter than others
[Music]
either way low tide provides a seafood
bounty
[Music]
stone tool use is a rare skill among
monkeys but these macaques can only
benefit from it by being completely in
tuned with the cycles of nature